---
title: Project 1
layout: activity
---
### Overview

This project challenges you to add one or more of your previous web projects to Github and implement Sass CSS preprocessing along with related technologies. The result should be a polished site that exhibits best practices and proficiency in front end design technologies.

### Process

After completing the related lesson, following these steps:

1. Identify several potential projects and share them as a proposal to your professor. Do this by sharing screenshots or zipped code samples with the prof through Slack. This way a conversation can unfold a little easier then through email and you can gain experience with this form of communication. Your prof will provide guidance towards selecting the best project to use for this refactoring and give some tips of things to look for. (end of week 1)
2. Use feedback from your professor to hone in on at least one project. Then:
  1. Set up a Github repository containing your starting code based on demonstrations provided in Lesson 1. Also be sure to set up your local environment so that you can make changes and commit them to the repository.
  2. Add the professor as a Collaborator under Settings > Collaborators so that pull requests can be reviewed and discussed. (end of week 2)
  3. Make many commits on your develop branch and push them to the repo. Your prof will keep an eye on things, and potentially jump in to give some feedback or even create issues that can trigger you to look into other changes.
3. Make all the modifications to the existing code base so as to incorporate best practices based on feedback from your professor and what you've learned in the related lesson. Commit frequently to the repository to show fluency with this technology. (early in week 3).
4. Create a pull request early in week 3 so your professor can begin to formally review and give you feedback on the changes you've made.
5. Watch for feedback from you professor and apply it by making changes, commiting them, and pushing them to your develop branch. Repeat this process until the professor approves of your final work.
6. Create a merge from develop to master that formally incorporates your changes into the master branch.

You are finished when a final, polished version of the project is committed to your Github repository's master branch.
